For my final week internship project at BitBuild, I have created a 2D endless runner space game, utilizing most of what SFML has to offer.
From the very start, my aspiration was to create something with replayability, and what better way than to create and endless 
arcade game which keeps track of the top 3 highscores?
The game is packed with gamechanging, yet random events such as asteroids, random enemy formations, random asteroid projectile spawn 
coordinates, 4 different powerups, and a boss-like enemy that puts the player on the edge.

Key Features:

1) Increasing difficulty as the game progresses:
 . The projectiles fired by the enemy battleships vary in color.
 . Red enemy laser in level 1: Slow rate of fire and slow projectile travel.
 . Yellow enemy laser in level 2: Faster rate of fire and faster projectile travel.
 . Purple enemy laser in level 3 onwards: Fastest rate of fire and fastest projectile travel.
 . 1/3 Chance for Boss/Monster spawn after each 25 seconds stage 2 onwards. 
 . Additionally, the enemy formations become more and more intricate as the game progresses.
 
2) Utilization of classes and inheritance:
 . Classes used to divide each segment of the game. (enemies, formations, powerups, asteroids, boss, player, etc)
 . Inheritance used in several occasions. (player-> bullet, enemy-> bomb, enemy -> formation, monster -> enemy, etc)
 
3) File handling:
 . Keeps track of the top 3 highscores and updates them perfectly when needed.
 
4) Sprites and animations:
 . sprites used for almost everything. (backdrop, playership, monster, menus, powerups, asteroid etc)
 . Animations created for several instances (Moving background, Player explode etc)
 
5) Power ups (4 types):
 . Heart (grants life)
 . Blue bolt (temporal invulnerability and fire penetrating blue bolts which do not stop on enemy contact)
 . Time capsule (Everything occurs in slow motion for an alotted time, making the game very easy temporarily)
 . Scattershot (3 scattershots provided to the player. Player laser is divided into multiple projectiles, each dispersed and launched at 
   a different angle)
 
6) Asteroids (Frequent obstacles):
 . Random spawn (Left or right and random y coordinates within the players general area) 
 
7) Different enemy types (Variation of enemy difficulty):
 . 3 types of invaders/enemy ships that fire lasers after different fixed intervals.

8) Boss/Monster:
 . Random spawn (1/3 chance to spawn each 25 seconds level 2 onwards)
 . Temporary presence (Player must survive a limited amount of time where the monster launches its signature "hellfire" after short, fixed
  intervals) 
  
9) Easy-to-navigate menus:
 . Main menu
 . Pause menu
 . game over menu
 
 
 It is a pleasure to have been a part of BitBuild's internship program. Throughout my journey, I have gotten significantly better with
 the SFML library, and taken a small step towards my ambition of becoming a professional programmer. I would like to thank BitBuild for 
providing such an opportunity, and I hope taking steps like these would one day plant my foot firmly on the plateu of success.
 
 Created by Aman Asif. I will shortly upload footage of gameplay on my linkedin. Thanks for reading.
